README.rst, before:

django-admin-shell
------------------

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/django-admin-shell.svg
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/django-admin-shell/


.. image:: https://github.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://github.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/
    :alt: GitHub Actions


.. image:: https://requires.io/github/djk2/django-admin-shell/requirements.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://requires.io/github/djk2/django-admin-shell/requirements/?branch=master
    :alt: Requirements Status


Django application can execute python code in your project's environment on django admin site.
You can use similar as `python manage shell` without reloading the environment.


* Tested by tox with:
    - Python : 3.7, 3.8, 3.10
    - Django : 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 4.0, 4.2

* Require:
    - Django >= 1.10

* Tested on browsers
    - OK - Chromium  108 - Ubuntu 20.04
    - OK - Firefox 112.0.2 - Ubuntu 20.04
    - OK - Chromium 89 - Ubuntu 18.04
    - OK - Firefox 87.0 - Ubuntu 18.04
    - OK - Chromium 79.0  - Ubuntu 18.04
    - OK - Firefox 72.0.2 - Ubuntu 18.04
    - OK - Firefox 50.1.0 - Ubuntu 14.04
    - OK - Firefox 31.1 - CentOS 6.4
    - OK - Chromium 53.0 - Ubuntu 14.04
    - OK - Microsoft Edge 38 - Windows 10
    - OK - Internet Explorer 11.0 - Windows 8.1
    - OK - Internet Explorer 10.0 - Windows 7
    - OK - Internet Explorer 9.0 - Windows 7
    - ERR - Internet Explorer 8.0 - Windows 7 (javascripts not working / console work properly)



Screens
-------
.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/master/doc/static/screen1.png
    :alt: Django admin shell view


Shell in action
---------------
.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/master/doc/static/youtube.png
    :target: https://youtu.be/BnP2C3a-2cI



Install
--------

1. Install::

    pip install django-admin-shell

    or

    pip install git+https://github.com/djk2/django-admin-shell.git

    or after download zip

    pip install django-admin-shell.zip


2. Add `django_admin_shell` to your INSTALLED_APPS setting

 *settings.py* ::

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        ...
        'django_admin_shell',
        ...
    ]

3. Add the `django_admin_shell` urls to your root url patterns (above admin/) :

 *urls.py* ::

    urlpatterns = [
        re_path(r'^admin/shell/', include('django_admin_shell.urls')),
        ...
        re_path(r'^admin/', admin.site.urls),
    ]


Usage
------
* shell is available on url: **/admin/shell**
* On default settings user must be authenticated to django admin site and
  User must have superuser permission and DEBUG mode must be set on True.

.. note::

  Make sure that in your project session is enable

  More about session and how enabling session read here :
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/http/sessions/

  Usually default session in django project is enable

Demo
-----

Try `django-admin-shell` using simple demo app:

1. Clone project

   git clone https://github.com/djk2/django-admin-shell.git

2. Go to `demo` directory:

   cd django-admin-shell/demo

3. Install requirements:

   pip install -r requirements.txt

4. Run demo project

   ./manage.py runserver

5. Go to "http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/shell" and login to `admin` user with password `admin`


Settings
---------

ADMIN_SHELL_ENABLE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

If shell is enable or disable. When application is disable then url: /admin/shell return Http404 Not found


ADMIN_SHELL_ONLY_DEBUG_MODE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

If flag is set on True, then shell is available only in DEBUG mode.

If debug mode is required and debug mode is disabled then url: /admin/shell will return Http 403 Forbidden

ADMIN_SHELL_ONLY_FOR_SUPERUSER
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

If flag is set on True, then shell is available only for user with superuser permission.

If superuser is required and user not have permission then url: /admin/shell will return Http 403 Forbidden

ADMIN_SHELL_OUTPUT_SIZE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **integer**

*default* : **250**

Flag determines how many outputs can be remember.



ADMIN_SHELL_SESSION_KEY
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **string**

*default* : **django_admin_shell_output**

Name for key in session where is stored history last executed codes.



ADMIN_SHELL_IMPORT_DJANGO
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

If flag is set on True, then useful libraries and packages from Django will be automatically imported to shell.
For example: `from django.conf import settings`, so in shell you have directly access to attributes from
this module (e.g `settings.INSTALLED_APPS`). List of automatically imported modules is displayed on top of console
(screen below).
If you want disable auto import for django packages, set this flag to `False`.

**Nont**: *If during import occurred error `ImportError` then this module will be omitted.*

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/master/doc/static/auto_import.png
    :alt: Auto import section



ADMIN_SHELL_IMPORT_MODELS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

This flag is similar to `ADMIN_SHELL_IMPORT_DJANGO` but regarding auto import of models from all registered applications.
If flag is set on True, then models from all apps will be automatically imported to shell.
For example: `from django.contrib.auth.models import Permission, Group, User`,
so in shell you have directly access to this classes.
List of automatically imported models is displayed on top of console.
If you want disable auto import for models, set this flag to `False`.

**Nont**: *If during import occurred error `ImportError` then this module will be omitted.*


ADMIN_SHELL_CLEAR_SCOPE_ON_CLEAR_HISTORY
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **False**

This flag is used to enable the gargabe collector on the declared variables from the shell execution when the "clear history" is executed.
If this flag is set to `True`, then all the declared variables will be ERASED and FREED from memory on runtime when "clear history" is used.
If you want to persist indefinitly all declared variables on the shell, set this flag to `False`.

**BEWARE**: *leaving this disabled is not recomended on production code!*


Code examples
-------------

* show django settings::

    from django.conf import settings

    for key in dir(settings):
        val = getattr(settings, key, None)
        print(key, "=", val)


* run command in operating system and take output::

    import os

    os.system('date > /tmp/admin_console.tmp')
    os.system('echo ------- >> /tmp/admin_console.tmp')
    os.system('who >> /tmp/admin_console.tmp')
    os.system('echo ------- >> /tmp/admin_console.tmp')
    os.system('ps aux | grep python >> /tmp/admin_console.tmp')

    with open('/tmp/admin_console.tmp', 'r') as f:
        print(f.read())


* run big python code (get python source from website)::

    import requests

    req = requests.get('http://foo.bar.com/example.py')
    if req.status_code == 200:
        code = req.text
        print(code, '\n------------\n')
        exec(code)


Useful for me:
---------------
* https://docs.djangoproject.com/
* https://jquery.com/
* http://alan.blog-city.com/jquerylinedtextarea.htm

Similar projects:
-----------------
* https://github.com/onrik/django-webshell

Commit message:

Add ability to have user-defined callback

README.rst, after:

django-admin-shell
------------------

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/django-admin-shell.svg
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/django-admin-shell/


.. image:: https://github.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://github.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/actions/workflows/tests.yaml/
    :alt: GitHub Actions


.. image:: https://requires.io/github/djk2/django-admin-shell/requirements.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://requires.io/github/djk2/django-admin-shell/requirements/?branch=master
    :alt: Requirements Status


Django application can execute python code in your project's environment on django admin site.
You can use similar as `python manage shell` without reloading the environment.


* Tested by tox with:
    - Python : 3.7, 3.8, 3.10
    - Django : 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 4.0, 4.2

* Require:
    - Django >= 1.10

* Tested on browsers
    - OK - Chromium  108 - Ubuntu 20.04
    - OK - Firefox 112.0.2 - Ubuntu 20.04
    - OK - Chromium 89 - Ubuntu 18.04
    - OK - Firefox 87.0 - Ubuntu 18.04
    - OK - Chromium 79.0  - Ubuntu 18.04
    - OK - Firefox 72.0.2 - Ubuntu 18.04
    - OK - Firefox 50.1.0 - Ubuntu 14.04
    - OK - Firefox 31.1 - CentOS 6.4
    - OK - Chromium 53.0 - Ubuntu 14.04
    - OK - Microsoft Edge 38 - Windows 10
    - OK - Internet Explorer 11.0 - Windows 8.1
    - OK - Internet Explorer 10.0 - Windows 7
    - OK - Internet Explorer 9.0 - Windows 7
    - ERR - Internet Explorer 8.0 - Windows 7 (javascripts not working / console work properly)



Screens
-------
.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/master/doc/static/screen1.png
    :alt: Django admin shell view


Shell in action
---------------
.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/master/doc/static/youtube.png
    :target: https://youtu.be/BnP2C3a-2cI



Install
--------

1. Install::

    pip install django-admin-shell

    or

    pip install git+https://github.com/djk2/django-admin-shell.git

    or after download zip

    pip install django-admin-shell.zip


2. Add `django_admin_shell` to your INSTALLED_APPS setting

 *settings.py* ::

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        ...
        'django_admin_shell',
        ...
    ]

3. Add the `django_admin_shell` urls to your root url patterns (above admin/) :

 *urls.py* ::

    urlpatterns = [
        re_path(r'^admin/shell/', include('django_admin_shell.urls')),
        ...
        re_path(r'^admin/', admin.site.urls),
    ]


Usage
------
* shell is available on url: **/admin/shell**
* On default settings user must be authenticated to django admin site and
  User must have superuser permission and DEBUG mode must be set on True.

.. note::

  Make sure that in your project session is enable

  More about session and how enabling session read here :
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/http/sessions/

  Usually default session in django project is enable

Demo
-----

Try `django-admin-shell` using simple demo app:

1. Clone project

   git clone https://github.com/djk2/django-admin-shell.git

2. Go to `demo` directory:

   cd django-admin-shell/demo

3. Install requirements:

   pip install -r requirements.txt

4. Run demo project

   ./manage.py runserver

5. Go to "http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/shell" and login to `admin` user with password `admin`


Settings
---------

ADMIN_SHELL_ENABLE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

If shell is enable or disable. When application is disable then url: /admin/shell return Http404 Not found


ADMIN_SHELL_ONLY_DEBUG_MODE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

If flag is set on True, then shell is available only in DEBUG mode.

If debug mode is required and debug mode is disabled then url: /admin/shell will return Http 403 Forbidden

ADMIN_SHELL_ONLY_FOR_SUPERUSER
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

If flag is set on True, then shell is available only for user with superuser permission.

If superuser is required and user not have permission then url: /admin/shell will return Http 403 Forbidden

ADMIN_SHELL_OUTPUT_SIZE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **integer**

*default* : **250**

Flag determines how many outputs can be remember.



ADMIN_SHELL_SESSION_KEY
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **string**

*default* : **django_admin_shell_output**

Name for key in session where is stored history last executed codes.



ADMIN_SHELL_IMPORT_DJANGO
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

If flag is set on True, then useful libraries and packages from Django will be automatically imported to shell.
For example: `from django.conf import settings`, so in shell you have directly access to attributes from
this module (e.g `settings.INSTALLED_APPS`). List of automatically imported modules is displayed on top of console
(screen below).
If you want disable auto import for django packages, set this flag to `False`.

**Nont**: *If during import occurred error `ImportError` then this module will be omitted.*

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/djk2/django-admin-shell/master/doc/static/auto_import.png
    :alt: Auto import section



ADMIN_SHELL_IMPORT_MODELS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **True**

This flag is similar to `ADMIN_SHELL_IMPORT_DJANGO` but regarding auto import of models from all registered applications.
If flag is set on True, then models from all apps will be automatically imported to shell.
For example: `from django.contrib.auth.models import Permission, Group, User`,
so in shell you have directly access to this classes.
List of automatically imported models is displayed on top of console.
If you want disable auto import for models, set this flag to `False`.

**Nont**: *If during import occurred error `ImportError` then this module will be omitted.*


ADMIN_SHELL_CLEAR_SCOPE_ON_CLEAR_HISTORY
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **bool**

*default* : **False**

This flag is used to enable the gargabe collector on the declared variables from the shell execution when the "clear history" is executed.
If this flag is set to `True`, then all the declared variables will be ERASED and FREED from memory on runtime when "clear history" is used.
If you want to persist indefinitly all declared variables on the shell, set this flag to `False`.

**BEWARE**: *leaving this disabled is not recomended on production code!*

ADMIN_SHELL_CALLBACK
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*type* : **string**

*default* : **None**

This setting allows you to specify a callback function that will be called after each code execution in the admin shell. The callback function should be provided as a string in the format "path.to.module.function_name".

The callback function will receive a dictionary with the following keys:
- 'request': The current request object
- 'user': The user who executed the code
- 'code': The code that was executed
- 'response': The result of the code execution
- 'timestamp': The time when the code was executed

This can be useful for logging or auditing purposes (e.g. saving executed code and its result to database). For example:

.. code-block:: python

    def my_callback(callback_data):
        print(f"User {callback_data['user']} executed code at {callback_data['timestamp']}")

    # In your settings.py
    ADMIN_SHELL_CALLBACK = 'path.to.my_callback'

If the callback function is defined but cannot be imported or raises an exception, a warning will be logged.

**Note**: Be careful when implementing the callback function, as it will be called for every code execution in the admin shell.


Code examples
-------------

* show django settings::

    from django.conf import settings

    for key in dir(settings):
        val = getattr(settings, key, None)
        print(key, "=", val)


* run command in operating system and take output::

    import os

    os.system('date > /tmp/admin_console.tmp')
    os.system('echo ------- >> /tmp/admin_console.tmp')
    os.system('who >> /tmp/admin_console.tmp')
    os.system('echo ------- >> /tmp/admin_console.tmp')
    os.system('ps aux | grep python >> /tmp/admin_console.tmp')

    with open('/tmp/admin_console.tmp', 'r') as f:
        print(f.read())


* run big python code (get python source from website)::

    import requests

    req = requests.get('http://foo.bar.com/example.py')
    if req.status_code == 200:
        code = req.text
        print(code, '\n------------\n')
        exec(code)


Useful for me:
---------------
* https://docs.djangoproject.com/
* https://jquery.com/
* http://alan.blog-city.com/jquerylinedtextarea.htm

Similar projects:
-----------------
* https://github.com/onrik/django-webshell
